docs/docs/user/jena-cli.md, before:

Jelly-JVM fully supports Apache Jena's command-line interface (CLI) utilities.

## Parsing

Jena will automatically detect Jelly files based on their extension (`.jelly`, `.jelly.gz`) and parse them. You can also manually set the `--syntax` option to `jelly`.

## Writing

You can use Jelly as an output format for Jena's CLI utilities by specifying the `--output` or `--stream` options with the `jelly` format. We recommend using the `--stream` option for better performance. 

!!! example "Example: converting a Turtle file to Jelly"

    ```shell
    ./riot --stream=jelly data.ttl > data.jelly
    ```

By default Jena will use the "small, all features" Jelly preset (name table: 128 entries, prefix table: 16, datatype table: 16, RDF-star enabled, generalized RDF enabled). There are a few reasons why you might want to change these serialization options:

- **Performance** – for larger files, the small preset does not offer the best performance or compression ratio. It's better to use larger lookup tables.
- **Compatibility** – if your data does not include RDF-star or generalized RDF, you can mark these features as disabled. Later, parsers will know accurately what to expect in your data.

The following presets are available:

- Small: 128 name table entries, 16 prefix table entries, 16 datatype table entries
    - `SMALL_STRICT` – RDF-star and generalized RDF disabled
    - `SMALL_GENERALIZED` – RDF-star disabled, generalized RDF enabled
    - `SMALL_RDF_STAR` – RDF-star enabled, generalized RDF disabled
    - `SMALL_ALL_FEATURES` – RDF-star and generalized RDF enabled **(default)**
- Big: 4000 name table entries, 150 prefix table entries, 32 datatype table entries **(recommended for larger files)**
    - `BIG_STRICT`
    - `BIG_GENERALIZED`
    - `BIG_RDF_STAR`
    - `BIG_ALL_FEATURES`

To use one of these presets, use the `--set` CLI option with the `https://neverblink.eu/jelly/riot/symbols#preset` symbol:

!!! example "Example: converting a Turtle file to Jelly with a big preset (strict)"

    ```shell
    ./riot --stream=jelly \
        --set="https://neverblink.eu/jelly/riot/symbols#preset=BIG_STRICT" \
        data.ttl > data.jelly
    ```

!!! example "Example: dumping a TDB2 database to Jelly with a big preset (all features)"

    ```shell
    ./tdb2.tdbdump --tdb=path/to/assembler.ttl \
        --set="https://neverblink.eu/jelly/riot/symbols#preset=BIG_ALL_FEATURES" \
        --stream=jelly > mydb.jelly
    ```

## See also

- [Installing Jelly with Jena](../getting-started-plugins.md#apache-jena-apache-jena-fuseki)
- [Jena CLI documentation](https://jena.apache.org/documentation/tools/index.html)

Commit message:

Jena/RDF4J: increase default size of serializer lookups (#550)
We used to default to the very small name/prefix tables that reduce performance drastically when dealing with larger datasets. Meanwhile, in small datasets these larger lookups perform the same or just slightly worse than the small ones. It makes more sense to use the larger ones as the default.

---------

Co-authored-by: Karolina-Bogacka <karolina@neverblink.eu>

docs/docs/user/jena-cli.md, after:

Jelly-JVM fully supports Apache Jena's command-line interface (CLI) utilities.

## Parsing

Jena will automatically detect Jelly files based on their extension (`.jelly`, `.jelly.gz`) and parse them. You can also manually set the `--syntax` option to `jelly`.

## Writing

You can use Jelly as an output format for Jena's CLI utilities by specifying the `--output` or `--stream` options with the `jelly` format. We recommend using the `--stream` option for better performance. 

!!! example "Example: converting a Turtle file to Jelly"

    ```shell
    ./riot --stream=jelly data.ttl > data.jelly
    ```

By default Jena will use the "big, all features" Jelly preset (name table: 4000 entries, prefix table: 128, datatype table: 32, RDF-star enabled, generalized RDF enabled). There are a few reasons why you might want to change these serialization options:

- **Performance** – you may want to tweak the settings to better fit your data.
- **Compatibility** – if your data does not include RDF-star or generalized RDF, you can mark these features as disabled. Later, parsers will know accurately what to expect in your data.

The following presets are available:

- Small: 128 name table entries, 16 prefix table entries, 16 datatype table entries
    - `SMALL_STRICT` – RDF-star and generalized RDF disabled
    - `SMALL_GENERALIZED` – RDF-star disabled, generalized RDF enabled
    - `SMALL_RDF_STAR` – RDF-star enabled, generalized RDF disabled
    - `SMALL_ALL_FEATURES` – RDF-star and generalized RDF enabled
- Big: 4000 name table entries, 150 prefix table entries, 32 datatype table entries **(recommended for larger files)**
    - `BIG_STRICT`
    - `BIG_GENERALIZED`
    - `BIG_RDF_STAR`
    - `BIG_ALL_FEATURES` **(default)**

To use one of these presets, use the `--set` CLI option with the `https://neverblink.eu/jelly/riot/symbols#preset` symbol:

!!! example "Example: converting a Turtle file to Jelly with a big preset (strict)"

    ```shell
    ./riot --stream=jelly \
        --set="https://neverblink.eu/jelly/riot/symbols#preset=BIG_STRICT" \
        data.ttl > data.jelly
    ```

!!! example "Example: dumping a TDB2 database to Jelly with a big preset (all features)"

    ```shell
    ./tdb2.tdbdump --tdb=path/to/assembler.ttl \
        --set="https://neverblink.eu/jelly/riot/symbols#preset=BIG_ALL_FEATURES" \
        --stream=jelly > mydb.jelly
    ```

## See also

- [Installing Jelly with Jena](../getting-started-plugins.md#apache-jena-apache-jena-fuseki)
- [Jena CLI documentation](https://jena.apache.org/documentation/tools/index.html)
