docs/docs/user/low-level.md, before:

# Low-level usage

!!! warning

    This page describes a low-level API that is a bit of a hassle to use directly. It's recommended to use the higher-level abstractions provided by the [`jelly-stream` module](reactive.md), or the integrations with [Apache Jena's RIOT](jena.md) or [RDF4J's Rio](rdf4j.md) libraries. If you really want to use this, it is highly recommended that you first get a [basic understanding of how Jelly works under the hood]({{ proto_link('user-guide') }}) and take a look at the [code in the `jelly-stream` module]({{ git_link('stream') }}) to see how it's done there.

!!! note

    The following guide uses the [Apache Jena](jena.md) library as an example. The exact same thing can be done with [RDF4J](rdf4j.md) or any other RDF library that has a Jelly integration.

## Deserialization

To parse a serialized stream frame into triples/quads:

1. Call {{ javadoc_link_pretty('core', 'proto.v1.RdfStreamFrame$', 'parseFrom') }} if it's a non-delimited frame (like you would see, e.g., in a Kafka or gRPC stream), or `parseDelimitedFrom` if it's a [delimited stream]({{ proto_link('user-guide#delimited-vs-non-delimited-jelly') }}) (like you would see in a file or a socket).
2. Obtain a decoder that turns `RdfStreamFrame`s into triples/quads: {{ javadoc_link_pretty('jena', 'JenaConverterFactory$') }} has different methods for [different physical stream types]({{ proto_link('user-guide#stream-types') }}):
    - `anyStatementDecoder` for any physical stream type, outputs `Triple` or `Quad`
    - `triplesDecoder` for TRIPLES streams, outputs `Triple`
    - `quadsDecoder` for QUADS streams, outputs `Quad`
    - `graphsDecoder` for GRAPHS streams, outputs `(Node, Iterable[Triple])`
    - `graphsAsQuadsDecoder` for GRAPHS streams, outputs `Quad`
3. For each row in the frame, call the decoder's `ingestRow` method to get the output iteratively.

## Serialization

To serialize triples/quads into a stream frame:

1. If you want to serialize an RDF graph/dataset, transform them first into triples/quads in an iterable form. Use the `asTriples`/`asQuads`/`asGraphs` extension methods provided by the {{ javadoc_link_pretty('jena', 'JenaIterableAdapter$') }} object.
2. Obtain an encoder that turns triples/quads into `RdfStreamRow`s (the rows of a stream frame): use the {{ javadoc_link_pretty('jena', 'JenaConverterFactory$', 'encoder') }} method to get an instance of {{ javadoc_link_pretty('jena', 'JenaProtoEncoder') }}.
3. Call the encoder's methods to add quads, triples, or named graphs to the stream frame.
    - Note that **YOU** are responsible for sticking to a specific physical stream type. For example, you should not mix triples with quads. It is highly recommended that you first read on the [available stream types]({{ proto_link('user-guide#stream-types') }}) in Jelly.
    - You are also responsible for setting the appropriate stream options with proper stream types. See the guide on [Jelly options presets](utilities.md#jelly-options-presets) for more information.
4. The encoder will be returning batches or rows. You are responsible for grouping those rows logically into `RdfStreamFrame`s. What you do here depends highly on the [logical stream type]({{ proto_link('user-guide#stream-types') }}) you are working with.

## See also

- [Useful utilities](utilities.md)
- [Reactive streaming with Jelly-JVM](reactive.md)
- [Implementing Jelly-JVM for a new RDF library](../dev/implementing.md)

Commit message:

Jena & RDF4J: autodetect if parsed file is delimited or not (#185)
* Jena & RDF4J: autodetect if parsed file is delimited or not

Continuation of #184. On top of support for this functionality in Jena, I've added the same for RDF4J and added a bunch of integration tests.

docs/docs/user/low-level.md, after:

# Low-level usage

!!! warning

    This page describes a low-level API that is a bit of a hassle to use directly. It's recommended to use the higher-level abstractions provided by the [`jelly-stream` module](reactive.md), or the integrations with [Apache Jena's RIOT](jena.md) or [RDF4J's Rio](rdf4j.md) libraries. If you really want to use this, it is highly recommended that you first get a [basic understanding of how Jelly works under the hood]({{ proto_link('user-guide') }}) and take a look at the [code in the `jelly-stream` module]({{ git_link('stream') }}) to see how it's done there.

!!! note

    The following guide uses the [Apache Jena](jena.md) library as an example. The exact same thing can be done with [RDF4J](rdf4j.md) or any other RDF library that has a Jelly integration.

## Deserialization

To parse a serialized stream frame into triples/quads:

1. Call {{ javadoc_link_pretty('core', 'proto.v1.RdfStreamFrame$', 'parseFrom') }} if it's a non-delimited frame (like you would see, e.g., in a Kafka or gRPC stream), or `parseDelimitedFrom` if it's a [delimited stream]({{ proto_link('user-guide#delimited-vs-non-delimited-jelly') }}) (like you would see in a file or a socket).
    - There is also a utility method to detect if the stream is delimited or not: {{ javadoc_link_pretty('core', 'IoUtils$', 'autodetectDelimiting') }}. In most cases you will not need to use it. It is used internally by the Jena and RDF4J integrations for user convenience.
2. Obtain a decoder that turns `RdfStreamFrame`s into triples/quads: {{ javadoc_link_pretty('jena', 'JenaConverterFactory$') }} has different methods for [different physical stream types]({{ proto_link('user-guide#stream-types') }}):
    - `anyStatementDecoder` for any physical stream type, outputs `Triple` or `Quad`
    - `triplesDecoder` for TRIPLES streams, outputs `Triple`
    - `quadsDecoder` for QUADS streams, outputs `Quad`
    - `graphsDecoder` for GRAPHS streams, outputs `(Node, Iterable[Triple])`
    - `graphsAsQuadsDecoder` for GRAPHS streams, outputs `Quad`
3. For each row in the frame, call the decoder's `ingestRow` method to get the output iteratively.

## Serialization

To serialize triples/quads into a stream frame:

1. If you want to serialize an RDF graph/dataset, transform them first into triples/quads in an iterable form. Use the `asTriples`/`asQuads`/`asGraphs` extension methods provided by the {{ javadoc_link_pretty('jena', 'JenaIterableAdapter$') }} object.
2. Obtain an encoder that turns triples/quads into `RdfStreamRow`s (the rows of a stream frame): use the {{ javadoc_link_pretty('jena', 'JenaConverterFactory$', 'encoder') }} method to get an instance of {{ javadoc_link_pretty('jena', 'JenaProtoEncoder') }}.
3. Call the encoder's methods to add quads, triples, or named graphs to the stream frame.
    - Note that **YOU** are responsible for sticking to a specific physical stream type. For example, you should not mix triples with quads. It is highly recommended that you first read on the [available stream types]({{ proto_link('user-guide#stream-types') }}) in Jelly.
    - You are also responsible for setting the appropriate stream options with proper stream types. See the guide on [Jelly options presets](utilities.md#jelly-options-presets) for more information.
4. The encoder will be returning batches or rows. You are responsible for grouping those rows logically into `RdfStreamFrame`s. What you do here depends highly on the [logical stream type]({{ proto_link('user-guide#stream-types') }}) you are working with.

## See also

- [Useful utilities](utilities.md)
- [Reactive streaming with Jelly-JVM](reactive.md)
- [Implementing Jelly-JVM for a new RDF library](../dev/implementing.md)
