docs/docs/user/reactive.md, before:

# User guide – reactive streaming

This guide explains the reactive streaming functionalities of the `jelly-stream` module.

!!! info "Prerequisites"

    If you are unfamiliar with the concept of reactive streams or Apache Pekko Streams, we highly recommend you start from reading about the **[basic concepts of Pekko Streams](https://pekko.apache.org/docs/pekko/current/stream/stream-flows-and-basics.html)**.
    
    We also recommend you first read about the **[RDF stream types in Jelly]({{ proto_link('user-guide#stream-types') }})**. Otherwise, this guide may not make much sense.


You can use `jelly-stream` with any RDF library that has a Jelly integration, such as [Apache Jena](jena.md) (using `jelly-jena`) or [RDF4J](rdf4j.md) (using `jelly-rdf4j`). The streaming API is generic and identical across all libraries.

## Basic concepts

A key notion of this API are the encoders and decoders.

- An encoder turns objects from your RDF library of choice (e.g., `Triple` in Apache Jena) into an object representation of Jelly's binary format (`RdfStreamFrame`).
- A decoder does the opposite: it turns `RdfStreamFrame`s into objects from your RDF library of choice.

So, for example, an encoder flow for flat triple streams would have a type of `#!scala Flow[Triple, RdfStreamFrame, NotUsed]` in Apache Jena. The opposite (a flat triple stream decoder) would have a type of `#!scala Flow[RdfStreamFrame, Triple, NotUsed]`.

`RdfStreamFrame`s can be converted to and from raw bytes using a range of methods, depending on your use case. See the sections below for examples.

## Encoding any RDF data as a flat or grouped stream (`EncoderFlow`)

The {{ javadoc_link_pretty('stream', 'EncoderFlow$') }} provides many options for turning RDF data into Jelly streams, including both grouped and flat streams. Every [type of RDF stream in Jelly]({{ proto_link('user-guide#stream-types') }}) can be created using this API.

{{ code_example('PekkoStreamsEncoderFlow.scala') }}

## Encoding a single RDF graph or dataset as a flat stream (`EncoderSource`)

There are also convenience methods for creating flat RDF streams (i.e., flat streams of triples or quads) from  a single graph or dataset. You can do this by chaining {{ javadoc_link_pretty('stream', 'RdfSource$') }} with {{ javadoc_link_pretty('stream', 'EncoderFlow$') }}, as shown in the example.

{{ code_example('PekkoStreamsEncoderSource.scala') }}

## Decoding RDF streams (`DecoderFlow`)

The {{ javadoc_link_pretty('stream', 'DecoderFlow$') }} provides methods for decoding flat and grouped streams. There is no opposite equivalent to `EncoderSource` for decoding, though. This would require constructing an RDF graph or dataset from statements, which is a process that can vary a lot depending on your application. You will have to do this part yourself.

{{ code_example('PekkoStreamsDecoderFlow.scala') }}

## Byte streams (delimited variant)

In all of the examples above, we used the [non-delimited variant of Jelly]({{ proto_link('user-guide#delimited-vs-non-delimited-jelly') }}), which is appropriate for, e.g., sending Jelly data over [gRPC](grpc.md) or Kafka. If you want to write Jelly data to a file or a socket, you will need to use the delimited variant. `jelly-stream` provides a few methods for this in {{ javadoc_link_pretty('stream', 'JellyIo') }}.

{{ code_example('PekkoStreamsWithIo.scala') }}

## See also

- [Using Jelly gRPC servers and clients](grpc.md)
- [Useful utilities](utilities.md)
    - [Using Typesafe config to configure Jelly](utilities.md#jelly-configuration-from-typesafe-config)
- [Low-level usage](low-level.md)

Commit message:

Add documentation for jelly-titanium-rdf-api (#298)
Issue #294

docs/docs/user/reactive.md, after:

# User guide – reactive streaming

This guide explains the reactive streaming functionalities of the `jelly-stream` module.

!!! info "Prerequisites"

    If you are unfamiliar with the concept of reactive streams or Apache Pekko Streams, we highly recommend you start from reading about the **[basic concepts of Pekko Streams](https://pekko.apache.org/docs/pekko/current/stream/stream-flows-and-basics.html)**.
    
    We also recommend you first read about the **[RDF stream types in Jelly]({{ proto_link('user-guide#stream-types') }})**. Otherwise, this guide may not make much sense.


You can use `jelly-stream` with any RDF library that has a full Jelly integration, such as [Apache Jena](jena.md) (using `jelly-jena`) or [RDF4J](rdf4j.md) (using `jelly-rdf4j`)[^1]. The streaming API is generic and identical across all libraries.

## Basic concepts

A key notion of this API are the encoders and decoders.

- An encoder turns objects from your RDF library of choice (e.g., `Triple` in Apache Jena) into an object representation of Jelly's binary format (`RdfStreamFrame`).
- A decoder does the opposite: it turns `RdfStreamFrame`s into objects from your RDF library of choice.

So, for example, an encoder flow for flat triple streams would have a type of `#!scala Flow[Triple, RdfStreamFrame, NotUsed]` in Apache Jena. The opposite (a flat triple stream decoder) would have a type of `#!scala Flow[RdfStreamFrame, Triple, NotUsed]`.

`RdfStreamFrame`s can be converted to and from raw bytes using a range of methods, depending on your use case. See the sections below for examples.

## Encoding any RDF data as a flat or grouped stream (`EncoderFlow`)

The {{ javadoc_link_pretty('stream', 'EncoderFlow$') }} provides many options for turning RDF data into Jelly streams, including both grouped and flat streams. Every [type of RDF stream in Jelly]({{ proto_link('user-guide#stream-types') }}) can be created using this API.

{{ code_example('PekkoStreamsEncoderFlow.scala') }}

## Encoding a single RDF graph or dataset as a flat stream (`EncoderSource`)

There are also convenience methods for creating flat RDF streams (i.e., flat streams of triples or quads) from  a single graph or dataset. You can do this by chaining {{ javadoc_link_pretty('stream', 'RdfSource$') }} with {{ javadoc_link_pretty('stream', 'EncoderFlow$') }}, as shown in the example.

{{ code_example('PekkoStreamsEncoderSource.scala') }}

## Decoding RDF streams (`DecoderFlow`)

The {{ javadoc_link_pretty('stream', 'DecoderFlow$') }} provides methods for decoding flat and grouped streams. There is no opposite equivalent to `EncoderSource` for decoding, though. This would require constructing an RDF graph or dataset from statements, which is a process that can vary a lot depending on your application. You will have to do this part yourself.

{{ code_example('PekkoStreamsDecoderFlow.scala') }}

## Byte streams (delimited variant)

In all of the examples above, we used the [non-delimited variant of Jelly]({{ proto_link('user-guide#delimited-vs-non-delimited-jelly') }}), which is appropriate for, e.g., sending Jelly data over [gRPC](grpc.md) or Kafka. If you want to write Jelly data to a file or a socket, you will need to use the delimited variant. `jelly-stream` provides a few methods for this in {{ javadoc_link_pretty('stream', 'JellyIo') }}.

{{ code_example('PekkoStreamsWithIo.scala') }}

## See also

- [Using Jelly gRPC servers and clients](grpc.md)
- [Useful utilities](utilities.md)
    - [Using Typesafe config to configure Jelly](utilities.md#jelly-configuration-from-typesafe-config)
- [Low-level usage](low-level.md)


[^1]: There is no support for the Pekko Streams API in the [`jelly-titanium-rdf-api` module](titanium.md). You will need to use a full RDF library like Jena or RDF4J to access it.
