docs/docs/contributing.md, before:

# Contributing to Jelly-JVM

Jelly-JVM is an open project – **you are welcome to submit issues, pull requests, or just ask questions**!

## Submitting issues

If you have a question, found a bug, or have an idea for a new feature, please [open an issue](https://github.com/Jelly-RDF/jelly-jvm/issues/new/choose) in the **[GitHub issue tracker](https://github.com/Jelly-RDF/jelly-jvm/issues)**.

### Security issues

If you find a security issue, please **do not** open a public issue. Instead, send an email to the maintainer – the email address is listed in the [GitHub profile](https://github.com/Ostrzyciel).

## Pull requests

Pull requests are welcome! Simply fork the **[GitHub repository](https://github.com/Jelly-RDF/jelly-jvm)** and create a new branch for your changes. When you are ready, open a pull request to the `main` branch.

If you are working on a larger feature or a significant change, it is recommended to open an issue first to discuss the idea.

## Documentation

Jelly-JVM uses the exact same documentation system as the main [Jelly documentation]({{ proto_link() }}). Further information on editing the documentation can be found in the [Contributing to the Jelly documentation]({{ proto_link('contributing') }}) guide.

## Releases

See the [dedicated page on making releases](dev/releases.md).

## See also

- [Licensing and citation](licensing.md)

Commit message:

Docs: update info on reporting vulnerabilities

docs/docs/contributing.md, after:

# Contributing to Jelly-JVM

Jelly-JVM is an open project – **you are welcome to submit issues, pull requests, or just ask questions**!

## Submitting issues

If you have a question, found a bug, or have an idea for a new feature, please [open an issue](https://github.com/Jelly-RDF/jelly-jvm/issues/new/choose) in the **[GitHub issue tracker](https://github.com/Jelly-RDF/jelly-jvm/issues)**.

### Security issues

If you find a security issue or vulnerability, please **do not** open a public issue. Instead, **[use the dedicated vulnerability reporting page](https://github.com/Jelly-RDF/jelly-jvm/security)**.

## Pull requests

Pull requests are welcome! Simply fork the **[GitHub repository](https://github.com/Jelly-RDF/jelly-jvm)** and create a new branch for your changes. When you are ready, open a pull request to the `main` branch.

If you are working on a larger feature or a significant change, it is recommended to open an issue first to discuss the idea.

## Documentation

Jelly-JVM uses the exact same documentation system as the main [Jelly documentation]({{ proto_link() }}). Further information on editing the documentation can be found in the [Contributing to the Jelly documentation]({{ proto_link('contributing') }}) guide.

## Releases

See the [dedicated page on making releases](dev/releases.md).

## See also

- [Licensing and citation](licensing.md)
