docs/docs/getting-started-plugins.md, before:

# Jelly-JVM – getting started with Jena/RDF4J plugins

This guide explains how to use Jelly-JVM with Apache Jena or RDF4J as a plugin, **without writing a single line of code**. Jelly-JVM provides plugin JARs that you can simply drop in the appropriate directory to get Jelly format support in your application.

## Installation

### Apache Jena, Apache Jena Fuseki

You can simply add Jelly format support to [Apache Jena](https://jena.apache.org/index.html) or [Apacha Jena Fuseki](https://jena.apache.org/documentation/fuseki2/index.html) with Jelly's plugin JAR.

- First, download the plugin JAR. You can download the {% if jvm_version() == 'dev' %}
**[latest development version from here](https://github.com/Jelly-RDF/jelly-jvm/releases/download/dev/jelly-jena-plugin.jar)**,
{% else %}
**[version {{ jvm_version() }} from here](https://github.com/Jelly-RDF/jelly-jvm/releases/download/{{ git_tag() }}/jelly-jena-plugin.jar)**,
{% endif %} or you can go the the [releases page](https://github.com/Jelly-RDF/jelly-jvm/releases) on GitHub to download a different version of the `jelly-jena-plugin.jar` file.
    - Note that the Jelly version must be compatible with your Apache Jena version. Consult the [compatibility table](index.md#compatibility).
- Place the file in your classpath:
    - For Apache Jena Fuseki, simply place the file in `$FUSEKI_BASE/extra/` directory. `$FUSEKI_BASE` is the directory usually called `run` where you have files such as `config.ttl` and `shiro.ini`. You will most likely need to create the `extra` directory yourself.
    - For Apache Jena, place the file in the `lib/` directory of your Jena installation.
    - For other applications, consult the manual of the application.
- You can now use the Jelly format for parsing, serialization, and streaming serialization in your Jena application.

!!! warning "Content negotiation in Fuseki"

    Content negotiation using the `application/x-jelly-rdf` media type in the `Accept` header works in Fuseki since Apache Jena version 5.2.0. Previous versions of Fuseki did not support media type registration.
    

### Eclipse RDF4J

You can simply add Jelly format support to an application based on RDF4J with Jelly's plugin JAR.

- First, download the plugin JAR. You can download the {% if jvm_version() == 'dev' %}
**[latest development version from here](https://github.com/Jelly-RDF/jelly-jvm/releases/download/dev/jelly-rdf4j-plugin.jar)**,
{% else %}
**[version {{ jvm_version() }} from here](https://github.com/Jelly-RDF/jelly-jvm/releases/download/{{ git_tag() }}/jelly-rdf4j-plugin.jar)**,
{% endif %} or you can go the the [releases page](https://github.com/Jelly-RDF/jelly-jvm/releases) on GitHub to download a specific version of the `jelly-rdf4j-plugin.jar` file.
    - Note that the Jelly version must be compatible with your RDF4J version. Consult the [compatibility table](index.md#compatibility).
- Place the file in your classpath:
    - For the RDF4J SDK distribution, place the file in the `lib/` directory of your RDF4J installation.
    - For other applications, consult the manual of your application for the exact location.
- You can now use the Jelly format for parsing and serialization in your RDF4J application.

## Supported features

The Jelly-JVM plugin JARs provide the following features:

- Full support for parsing and serialization of RDF data (triples and quads) in the Jelly format.
    - The parser will automatically detect if the input data [is delimited or not]({{ proto_link('user-guide#delimited-vs-non-delimited-jelly') }}). Both delimited and non-delimited Jelly data can be parsed.
    - In Apache Jena also the stream serialization is supported.
- Recognizing the `.jelly` file extension.
- Recognizing the `application/x-jelly-rdf` media type.

The Jelly format is registered under the name `jelly` in the RDF libraries, so you can use it in the same way as other formats like Turtle, RDF/XML, or JSON-LD.

## See also

- **[Getting started for developers](getting-started-devs.md)** – if you want to get your hands dirty with code and get more features out of Jelly.

Commit message:

Jena CLI: allow changing writer settings with presets (#223)
Previously it was not really possible to change the Jelly writer options when using the Jena CLI utilities. There is a CLI option to modify the Jena context, but our context would have to be set to a Java object... which I honestly hope is not possible, because that would be RCE or something.

So, to get around this, this commit introduces "presets" based on the default setting presets available in JellyOptions. The user can simply choose one of these by setting a symbol to the name of the preset.

I've added a test that checks if this works across all writers.

I've also added a doc page documenting this, because honestly, it's a neat and useful feature.

docs/docs/getting-started-plugins.md, after:

# Jelly-JVM – getting started with Jena/RDF4J plugins

This guide explains how to use Jelly-JVM with Apache Jena or RDF4J as a plugin, **without writing a single line of code**. Jelly-JVM provides plugin JARs that you can simply drop in the appropriate directory to get Jelly format support in your application.

## Installation

### Apache Jena, Apache Jena Fuseki

You can simply add Jelly format support to [Apache Jena](https://jena.apache.org/index.html) or [Apacha Jena Fuseki](https://jena.apache.org/documentation/fuseki2/index.html) with Jelly's plugin JAR.

- First, download the plugin JAR. You can download the {% if jvm_version() == 'dev' %}
**[latest development version from here](https://github.com/Jelly-RDF/jelly-jvm/releases/download/dev/jelly-jena-plugin.jar)**,
{% else %}
**[version {{ jvm_version() }} from here](https://github.com/Jelly-RDF/jelly-jvm/releases/download/{{ git_tag() }}/jelly-jena-plugin.jar)**,
{% endif %} or you can go the the [releases page](https://github.com/Jelly-RDF/jelly-jvm/releases) on GitHub to download a different version of the `jelly-jena-plugin.jar` file.
    - Note that the Jelly version must be compatible with your Apache Jena version. Consult the [compatibility table](index.md#compatibility).
- Place the file in your classpath:
    - For Apache Jena Fuseki, simply place the file in `$FUSEKI_BASE/extra/` directory. `$FUSEKI_BASE` is the directory usually called `run` where you have files such as `config.ttl` and `shiro.ini`. You will most likely need to create the `extra` directory yourself.
    - For Apache Jena, place the file in the `lib/` directory of your Jena installation.
    - For other applications, consult the manual of the application.
- You can now use the Jelly format for parsing, serialization, and streaming serialization in your Jena application.

!!! warning "Content negotiation in Fuseki"

    Content negotiation using the `application/x-jelly-rdf` media type in the `Accept` header works in Fuseki since Apache Jena version 5.2.0. Previous versions of Fuseki did not support media type registration.

!!! tip "How to use Jelly with Jena's CLI tools?"

    Jelly-JVM fully supports Apache Jena's command-line interface (CLI) utilities. See the **[dedicated guide](user/jena-cli.md)** for more information.
    

### Eclipse RDF4J

You can simply add Jelly format support to an application based on RDF4J with Jelly's plugin JAR.

- First, download the plugin JAR. You can download the {% if jvm_version() == 'dev' %}
**[latest development version from here](https://github.com/Jelly-RDF/jelly-jvm/releases/download/dev/jelly-rdf4j-plugin.jar)**,
{% else %}
**[version {{ jvm_version() }} from here](https://github.com/Jelly-RDF/jelly-jvm/releases/download/{{ git_tag() }}/jelly-rdf4j-plugin.jar)**,
{% endif %} or you can go the the [releases page](https://github.com/Jelly-RDF/jelly-jvm/releases) on GitHub to download a specific version of the `jelly-rdf4j-plugin.jar` file.
    - Note that the Jelly version must be compatible with your RDF4J version. Consult the [compatibility table](index.md#compatibility).
- Place the file in your classpath:
    - For the RDF4J SDK distribution, place the file in the `lib/` directory of your RDF4J installation.
    - For other applications, consult the manual of your application for the exact location.
- You can now use the Jelly format for parsing and serialization in your RDF4J application.

## Supported features

The Jelly-JVM plugin JARs provide the following features:

- Full support for parsing and serialization of RDF data (triples and quads) in the Jelly format.
    - The parser will automatically detect if the input data [is delimited or not]({{ proto_link('user-guide#delimited-vs-non-delimited-jelly') }}). Both delimited and non-delimited Jelly data can be parsed.
    - In Apache Jena also the stream serialization is supported.
- Recognizing the `.jelly` file extension.
- Recognizing the `application/x-jelly-rdf` media type.

The Jelly format is registered under the name `jelly` in the RDF libraries, so you can use it in the same way as other formats like Turtle, RDF/XML, or JSON-LD.

## See also

- **[Getting started for developers](getting-started-devs.md)** – if you want to get your hands dirty with code and get more features out of Jelly.
