docs/docs/getting-started-neo4j.md, before:

# Getting started with Neo4j

!!! info

    This integration with Neo4j requires the use of the [neosemantics](https://neo4j.com/labs/neosemantics/) plugin that only works with Neo4j Desktop and self-hosted instances (Neo4j Community/Enterprise). **It does not work with AuraDB.** For AuraDB, you can alternatively use the **[Python integration that connects to Neo4j over Bolt](https://w3id.org/jelly/pyjelly/dev/rdflib-neo4j-integration/)** via [rdflib-neo4j](https://neo4j.com/labs/rdflib-neo4j/).

## Installation

The **[latest version ({{ jvm_package_version() }}) of the Jelly-Neo4j plugin](https://github.com/Jelly-RDF/jelly-jvm/releases/download/v{{ jvm_package_version() }}/jelly-neo4j-plugin.jar)** is compatible with Neo4j versions {{ neo4j_version('min') }}–{{ neo4j_version('max') }}[^1]. Jelly-Neo4j depends on the [neosemantics](https://neo4j.com/labs/neosemantics/) plugin, which must also be installed. Neosemantics must have the same version as the Neo4j database.

=== "Neo4j Desktop"

    1. Install [Neo4j Desktop](https://neo4j.com/download/) if you haven't already.
    2. Create a new local instance. Select Neo4j version {{ neo4j_version('max') }}.
    3. In the list of instances, click on the :material-folder-outline: button next to "**Path:**" to open the instance folder.
    4. Open the `plugins` subfolder.
    5. Download the neosemantics plugin `.jar` file from the [neosemantics releases page](https://github.com/neo4j-labs/neosemantics/releases) and place it in the `plugins` folder.
    6. Download the [Jelly-Neo4j plugin `.jar` file](https://github.com/Jelly-RDF/jelly-jvm/releases/download/v{{ jvm_package_version() }}/jelly-neo4j-plugin.jar) and place it in the `plugins` folder.
    7. Go back to the Neo4j Desktop application and restart your instance.

=== "Self-hosted server (Community and Enterprise editions)"

    1. Install [Neo4j Community or Enterprise Edition](https://neo4j.com/docs/operations-manual/current/installation/) if you haven't already. The supported Neo4j versions are currently {{ neo4j_version('min') }}–{{ neo4j_version('max') }}.
    2. Open the Neo4j installation folder (`$NEO4J_HOME`).
    3. Open the `plugins` subfolder.
    4. Download the neosemantics plugin `.jar` file from the [neosemantics releases page](https://github.com/neo4j-labs/neosemantics/releases) and place it in the `plugins` folder. The plugin's version must be the same as Neo4j's.
    5. Download the [Jelly-Neo4j plugin `.jar` file](https://github.com/Jelly-RDF/jelly-jvm/releases/download/v{{ jvm_package_version() }}/jelly-neo4j-plugin.jar) and place it in the `plugins` folder.
    6. Start the Neo4j server.

At the end, your `plugins` folder should look like this:

```shell title="$ ls"
jelly-neo4j-plugin.jar  neosemantics-{{ neo4j_version('max') }}.jar  README.txt
```

See also the [installation instructions for neosemantics](https://neo4j.com/labs/neosemantics/installation/).

## Usage

The Jelly-Neo4j plugin adds support for Jelly to all functionalities of neosemantics. Two formats are supported:

- `Jelly` – native binary format. Supported in all places except aggregations due to Neo4j limitations.
- `Jelly-base64` – base64-encoded version of Jelly. Supported in all places.

### Setup

To get started with using the neosemantics plugin, changes must be made to database's constraints and graph config. **[See the instructions in the neosemantics documentation](https://neo4j.com/labs/neosemantics/tutorial/)**.

### Importing data

To import a Jelly file (either local or via HTTP), use the `n10s.rdf.import.fetch` procedure, with first argument set to the file URL or path, and the second set to `Jelly`. For example, to import RiverBench's metadata, call:

```cypher
CALL n10s.rdf.import.fetch(
    'https://w3id.org/riverbench/dumps-with-results/dev.jelly.gz', 
    'Jelly'
)
```

### Cypher aggregations

Results from Cypher queries can be aggregated into RDF data using the `n10s.rdf.export.cypher` procedure and `n10s.rdf.collect.jelly_base64` aggregation:

```cypher
CALL n10s.rdf.export.cypher("MATCH (p) RETURN p LIMIT 10")
yield subject, predicate, object, isLiteral, literalType, literalLang
return n10s.rdf.collect.jelly_base64(
    subject, predicate, object, isLiteral, literalType, literalLang
) as rdf
```

Note that the output here will be base64-encoded, due to Neo4j's limitations when working with binary data. To parse this, you will either need to use the `Jelly-base64` format in Neo4j, or decode it first from base64.

### Exporting data via HTTP

HTTP endpoints for bulk RDF export can be enabled in neosemantics by adding the following configuration to the `neo4j.conf` file:

```conf
server.unmanaged_extension_classes=n10s.endpoint=/rdf
```

Then, you can for example call the following endpoint to export the results of Cypher queries or describe individual nodes – simply append the `?format=Jelly` query parameter. For example, to describe the `https://w3id.org/riverbench/datasets/osm2rdf-denmark/dev` node, call:

```
GET /rdf/neo4j/describe/https%3A%2F%2Fw3id.org%2Friverbench%2Fdatasets%2Fosm2rdf-denmark%2Fdev?format=Jelly
```

The identifier was urlencoded. The result will be a Jelly file containing a description of the node.

See [the neosemantics documentation](https://neo4j.com/labs/neosemantics/) for more details and examples.

### Deleting data

In much the same way as importing, you can delete data with the `n10s.rdf.delete.fetch` procedure. For example, to delete all triples and quads from a Jelly file, call:

```cypher
CALL n10s.rdf.delete.fetch(
    'https://w3id.org/riverbench/dumps-with-results/dev.jelly.gz', 
    'Jelly'
)
```

### More...

All features of neosemantics are supported. See the [neosemantics documentation](https://neo4j.com/labs/neosemantics/) for more details.

## See also

- [Alternative integration with Python and RDFLib](https://w3id.org/jelly/pyjelly/dev/rdflib-neo4j-integration/)
- [neosemantics documentation](https://neo4j.com/labs/neosemantics/)
- [Getting started with Jena and RDF4J plugins](getting-started-plugins.md)

[^1]: The limiting factor for compatibility is the neosemantics plugin, which must have the same version as the Neo4j database. Unfortunately, neosemantics is often much behind the latest Neo4j releases.

Commit message:

Neo4j: document jelly.version() (#515)
Issue: #507

docs/docs/getting-started-neo4j.md, after:

# Getting started with Neo4j

!!! info

    This integration with Neo4j requires the use of the [neosemantics](https://neo4j.com/labs/neosemantics/) plugin that only works with Neo4j Desktop and self-hosted instances (Neo4j Community/Enterprise). **It does not work with AuraDB.** For AuraDB, you can alternatively use the **[Python integration that connects to Neo4j over Bolt](https://w3id.org/jelly/pyjelly/dev/rdflib-neo4j-integration/)** via [rdflib-neo4j](https://neo4j.com/labs/rdflib-neo4j/).

## Installation

The **[latest version ({{ jvm_package_version() }}) of the Jelly-Neo4j plugin](https://github.com/Jelly-RDF/jelly-jvm/releases/download/v{{ jvm_package_version() }}/jelly-neo4j-plugin.jar)** is compatible with Neo4j versions {{ neo4j_version('min') }}–{{ neo4j_version('max') }}[^1]. Jelly-Neo4j depends on the [neosemantics](https://neo4j.com/labs/neosemantics/) plugin, which must also be installed. Neosemantics must have the same version as the Neo4j database.

=== "Neo4j Desktop"

    1. Install [Neo4j Desktop](https://neo4j.com/download/) if you haven't already.
    2. Create a new local instance. Select Neo4j version {{ neo4j_version('max') }}.
    3. In the list of instances, click on the :material-folder-outline: button next to "**Path:**" to open the instance folder.
    4. Open the `plugins` subfolder.
    5. Download the neosemantics plugin `.jar` file from the [neosemantics releases page](https://github.com/neo4j-labs/neosemantics/releases) and place it in the `plugins` folder.
    6. Download the [Jelly-Neo4j plugin `.jar` file](https://github.com/Jelly-RDF/jelly-jvm/releases/download/v{{ jvm_package_version() }}/jelly-neo4j-plugin.jar) and place it in the `plugins` folder.
    7. Go back to the Neo4j Desktop application and restart your instance.

=== "Self-hosted server (Community and Enterprise editions)"

    1. Install [Neo4j Community or Enterprise Edition](https://neo4j.com/docs/operations-manual/current/installation/) if you haven't already. The supported Neo4j versions are currently {{ neo4j_version('min') }}–{{ neo4j_version('max') }}.
    2. Open the Neo4j installation folder (`$NEO4J_HOME`).
    3. Open the `plugins` subfolder.
    4. Download the neosemantics plugin `.jar` file from the [neosemantics releases page](https://github.com/neo4j-labs/neosemantics/releases) and place it in the `plugins` folder. The plugin's version must be the same as Neo4j's.
    5. Download the [Jelly-Neo4j plugin `.jar` file](https://github.com/Jelly-RDF/jelly-jvm/releases/download/v{{ jvm_package_version() }}/jelly-neo4j-plugin.jar) and place it in the `plugins` folder.
    6. Start the Neo4j server.

At the end, your `plugins` folder should look like this:

```shell title="$ ls"
jelly-neo4j-plugin.jar  neosemantics-{{ neo4j_version('max') }}.jar  README.txt
```

See also the [installation instructions for neosemantics](https://neo4j.com/labs/neosemantics/installation/).

## Usage

The Jelly-Neo4j plugin adds support for Jelly to all functionalities of neosemantics. Two formats are supported:

- `Jelly` – native binary format. Supported in all places except aggregations due to Neo4j limitations.
- `Jelly-base64` – base64-encoded version of Jelly. Supported in all places.

### Setup

To get started with using the neosemantics plugin, changes must be made to database's constraints and graph config. **[See the instructions in the neosemantics documentation](https://neo4j.com/labs/neosemantics/tutorial/)**.

### Importing data

To import a Jelly file (either local or via HTTP), use the `n10s.rdf.import.fetch` procedure, with first argument set to the file URL or path, and the second set to `Jelly`. For example, to import RiverBench's metadata, call:

```cypher
CALL n10s.rdf.import.fetch(
    'https://w3id.org/riverbench/dumps-with-results/dev.jelly.gz', 
    'Jelly'
)
```

### Cypher aggregations

Results from Cypher queries can be aggregated into RDF data using the `n10s.rdf.export.cypher` procedure and `n10s.rdf.collect.jelly_base64` aggregation:

```cypher
CALL n10s.rdf.export.cypher("MATCH (p) RETURN p LIMIT 10")
yield subject, predicate, object, isLiteral, literalType, literalLang
return n10s.rdf.collect.jelly_base64(
    subject, predicate, object, isLiteral, literalType, literalLang
) as rdf
```

Note that the output here will be base64-encoded, due to Neo4j's limitations when working with binary data. To parse this, you will either need to use the `Jelly-base64` format in Neo4j, or decode it first from base64.

### Exporting data via HTTP

HTTP endpoints for bulk RDF export can be enabled in neosemantics by adding the following configuration to the `neo4j.conf` file:

```conf
server.unmanaged_extension_classes=n10s.endpoint=/rdf
```

Then, you can for example call the following endpoint to export the results of Cypher queries or describe individual nodes – simply append the `?format=Jelly` query parameter. For example, to describe the `https://w3id.org/riverbench/datasets/osm2rdf-denmark/dev` node, call:

```
GET /rdf/neo4j/describe/https%3A%2F%2Fw3id.org%2Friverbench%2Fdatasets%2Fosm2rdf-denmark%2Fdev?format=Jelly
```

The identifier was urlencoded. The result will be a Jelly file containing a description of the node.

See [the neosemantics documentation](https://neo4j.com/labs/neosemantics/) for more details and examples.

### Deleting data

In much the same way as importing, you can delete data with the `n10s.rdf.delete.fetch` procedure. For example, to delete all triples and quads from a Jelly file, call:

```cypher
CALL n10s.rdf.delete.fetch(
    'https://w3id.org/riverbench/dumps-with-results/dev.jelly.gz', 
    'Jelly'
)
```

### Checking the version of the plugin

To check the version of the Jelly-Neo4j plugin, call:

```cypher
RETURN jelly.version()
```

### More...

All features of neosemantics are supported. See the [neosemantics documentation](https://neo4j.com/labs/neosemantics/) for more details.

## See also

- [Alternative integration with Python and RDFLib](https://w3id.org/jelly/pyjelly/dev/rdflib-neo4j-integration/)
- [neosemantics documentation](https://neo4j.com/labs/neosemantics/)
- [Getting started with Jena and RDF4J plugins](getting-started-plugins.md)

[^1]: The limiting factor for compatibility is the neosemantics plugin, which must have the same version as the Neo4j database. Unfortunately, neosemantics is often much behind the latest Neo4j releases.
